.TH corehttp 7 "5 Aug 2005"
.SH NAME
corehttp - single-process non-forking-blocking-threading http server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B corehttp
.I configfile 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I corehttp
is a web server which provides basic HTTP/1.0 support and does all it's work
from within one process. It never forks (except to serve dynamic content) and
it does not use pthreads. corehttp does all of this by using a
.I select()
server model where all sockets are set to non-blocking so we can cycle through
every socket fast, filling each socket's I/O demands evenly. Features include
.TP
*
Efficient processing model and good concurrency performance.
.TP
*
Passable HTTP/1.0 support.
.TP
*
Basic CGI support, though passing URL-encoded variables is sketchy.
.TP
*
Easily extensible but hard to understand at first.
.TP
*
Directory listings, root web directory, logging, configuration file.
.SH USAGE
To install corehttp, simply run make in the src/ directory
.PP
.nf
	make all		# Makes everything
	make install		# Installs files to path
	make clean		# Removes local objects and executables
	make uninstall		# Removes installed files
.fi
.PP
If you wish to have dynamic content support you will also need to have the
.B PHP - command line interpretor
and
.B Perl
interpretor installed on your system, or any other binary defined in the config
file. Currently, CGI isn't recommended because CoreHTTP must fork each time a
CGI page is requested. This should be fixed in the future with CoreHTTP 
pre-forking a few processes to handle dynamic content.
.PP
Using corehttp is simple once the config file is set up. Simply supply the
relative path to the config file as the only argument to corehttp.
.PP
.nf
	Example:
	corehttp chttp.conf
.fi
.PP
The included config file in the distribution is named
.B chttp.conf
and is located in the top level of the corehttp folder.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The
.B configuration file
will now be described. The format is simple and the included file has all the
possible settings corehttp has to offer. Here are some bullet points:
.TP
.BI # "    comment"
The hash mark denotes a comment. Anything on the current line beyond this is
ignored.
.TP
.BI TIMEOUT "    seconds"
How long until we drop an idle client.
.TP
.BI BACKLOG "    numPending"
This is the listening socket backlog. See
.B man 2 listen
for more information.
.TP
.BI DEFPAGE "    filename"
You may have more than one of these. The first DEFPAGE we see in the config
file is the "first" default filename we check for in a directory. The second
is the second, and so on. A common setup would be:
.PP
.nf
	DEFPAGE index.php
	DEFPAGE index.pl
	DEFPAGE index.html
	DEFPAGE index.htm
.fi
.TP
.BI PORT "    portno"
Just like DEFPAGE you may have more than one of these. This is the port that
the server listens on. The web port is 80.
.TP
.BI ROOTDIR "    absoluteWebPath"
This should be entered as an absolute path and should be the root web
directory. In other words, when someone types in www.yourdomain.com they should
view the index page within this directory.
.TP
.BI LOGFILE "    absoluteLogFilePath"
This should contain the absolute path to the file corehttp will write its log
to. Make sure whatever user you run corehttp with has write access to this
file.
.TP
.BI PAGE404 "    absolute404errorFilePath"
This should contain the absolute path to the page the server serves up when
it can't find a file.
.TP
.BI CGIEXT/CGIBIN
These two are meant to be used together, with CGIEXT being the file extension
and CGIBIN being the binary called. Multiple instances of this may be used. Just
keep the EXT/BINs in order. You can alternate them or do all BIN's and then all
EXTs if you want. For example, if /usr/bin/perl is the binary and *.pl is the
extension:
.PP
.nf
	CGIBIN	"/usr/bin/perl"
	CGIEXT	"pl"
.fi
.TP
.BI CONTENTEXT/CONTENTTYPE
Similarly used like CGIEXT and CGIBIN, except these denote what is sent in the
Content-type field in the HTTP header.
.TP
.BI UNKNOWNTYPE
The Content-type to return for a file with an unknown extension or none at all.
.TP
.BI DIRLIST "	dirlistScriptPath"
The location of the script that is suppost to take an absolute directory as an argument and print out an html directory list.
.PP
All you do is stick one of these bullet things on a separate line starting at
the beginning of a line in some file. Simple. There are also a few more compile
options present in 
.B common.c
and
.B common.h
and these files must be modified before compiling. These options are just
buffer sizes. The reason they are not changeable is that they are hard coded
free memory spaces within the program itself.
.TP
.B BUFSIZE
The largest buffer - this is used for sending and receiving chunks of data and
storing HTTP headers.
.TP
.B PATHSIZE
This is the utility size - used for things like storing URLs and filenames.
.TP
.B SETSIZE
The smallest buffer - this is how many multiplexed ports may be present and how
many default page names there are.
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
There are some common problems associated with running a server. A look at the
log file is the first step to take. Here are some possible problems:
.TP
.B Segmentation fault!
Uh oh, this server is still nascent and if this happens send me a line and
the config file or the log if it was running.
.TP
.B Bad config file
Maybe the config file parsing is buggy, maybe not. It should output what it
read before it exits, so see if you can use that to help.
.TP
.B Couldn't bind with server socket!
If you terminate an application that was bound to a port and attempt to start
another application that uses the same port in a small margin of time, the OS
won't let you because of a TCP feature. Just wait a minute or two and try
again. If this doesn't work, make sure you have admin privaliges if you are
trying a port less than 1024.
.TP
.B My log file has "PROBLEMS" everywhere!
That's okay. They're more like things that just happen, like when a client
bails out of a large file transfer.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright © 2005-2007 by Frank Yaul <frank723@gmail.com>. All rights reserved.
